TM Module 3.1.1 Update (#5715)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/training_manual/basic_map/vector_data.rst

represent **where** objects are in space, but also tells you **what** those
objects are.

From the previous exercise, you should have the ``protected_areas`` layer
loaded in your map. If it is not loaded, then you can find the 
:file:`protected_areas.shp` ESRI Shapefile in directory 
:file:`exercise_data/shapefile`.

The polygons representing the protected areas constitute the **spatial data**,
but we can learn more about the protected areas by exploring the
**attribute table**.

#. In the :guilabel:`Layers` panel, click on the ``protected_areas`` layer to 
   select it.
#. In the :guilabel:`Attributes Toolbar` click the |openTable| 
   :sup:`Open Attribute Table` button.  This will open a new window showing 
   the attribute table of the ``protected_areas`` layer.  

   .. figure:: img/attribute_data_preview.png
     :align: center

>    .. Note:: A row is called a **record** and is associated with a **feature** 
>       in the Canvas Map, such as a polygon.
>       A column is called a **field** (or an **attribute**), and has a name that helps
>       describe it, such as ``name`` or ``id``.
>       Values in the cells are known as **attribute values**.  
>       These definitions are commonly used in GIS, so it is good to become 
>       familiar with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A row is called a **record** and is associated with a **feature**
   in the Canvas Map, such as a polygon.
   A column is called a **field** (or an **attribute**), and has a name that helps
   describe it, such as ``name`` or ``id``.
   Values in the cells are known as **attribute values**.
   These definitions are commonly used in GIS, so it is good to become
   familiar with them.
```

represent **where** objects are in space, but also tells you **what** those
objects are.

From the previous exercise, you should have the ``protected_areas`` layer
loaded in your map. If it is not loaded, then you can find the 

> :file:`protected_areas.shp` ESRI Shapefile in directory 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:file:`protected_areas.shp` *ESRI Shapefile* format dataset in directory 
```

represent **where** objects are in space, but also tells you **what** those
objects are.

From the previous exercise, you should have the ``protected_areas`` layer
loaded in your map. If its not loaded, then you can find the 
:file:`protected_areas.shp` ESRI Shapefile in directory 
:file:`exercise_data/shapefile`.

> The polygons representing the protected areas is the **spatial data**, but we 
> can learn more about the protected areas by exploring the **attribute table**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The polygons representing the protected areas constitute the **spatial data**,
but we can learn more about the protected areas by exploring the
**attribute table**.
```

#. In the :guilabel:`Layers` panel, click on the ``protected_areas`` layer to 
   select it.
#. In the :guilabel:`Attributes Toolbar` click the |openTable| 
   :sup:`Open Attribute Table` button.  This will open a new window showing 
   the attribute table of the ``protected_areas`` layer.  

   .. figure:: img/attribute_data_preview.png
     :align: center

   .. Note:: A row is called a **record** and is associated with a **feature** 

>       in the Canvas Map, such as a polygon.  A column is called a **field**, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      in the Map Canvas, such as a polygon.  A column is called a **field**, 
```

>       in the Canvas Map, such as a polygon.  A column is called a **field**, 
>       and provides a name of a property that helps describe the features, 
>       such as ``name`` or ``id``. Values in the cells are known as **attributes**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      in the Canvas Map, such as a polygon.
      A column is called a **field** (or an **attribute**), and has a name that helps
      describe it, such as ``name`` or ``id``.
      Values in the cells are known as **attribute values**.  
```

      These definitions are commonly used in GIS, so it is good to become 
      familiar with them.

>    For ``protected_areas`` layer, there are two **features**, which matches 
>    the two polygons we see in the Map Canvas. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the ``protected_areas`` layer, there are two **features**, which are
   represented by the two polygons we see on the Map Canvas. 
```

>    .. Note:: In order to understand what the **fields** and **attributes** 
>       represent, one may need to find documentation (or meta data) describing 
>       meaning of the attribute values.  This is usually available from the creator
>       of the data set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. Note:: In order to understand what the **fields** and **attribute values** 
      represent, one may need to find documentation (or metadata) describing 
      the meaning of the attribute values.
      This is usually available from the creator of the data set.
```

> Next, let's see how the record in the Attribute Table is linked to a polygon 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, let's see how a record in the attribute table is linked to a polygon 
```

> feature that we see in the Map Canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature that we see on the Map Canvas.
```

#. Go back to the main QGIS window.
#. In the :guilabel:`Attributes Toolbar`, click on the |selectFeature| 
   :sup:`Select Feature` button.  
#. Make sure the ``protected_areas`` layer is still selected in the 
   :guilabel:`Layers` panel.
#. Move your mouse to the Map Canvas and left click on the smaller  
   of the two polygons.  The polygon will turn yellow indicating it is selected.
   
   .. figure:: img/select_polygon.png
      :align: center
   
#. Go back to the :guilabel:`Attribute Table` window, and you should see a 

>    record (row) highlighted.  These are the attributes of the selected polygon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   record (row) highlighted.  These are the attribute values of the
   selected polygon.
```

   
   .. figure:: img/select_record.png
     :align: center

You can also select a feature using the the Attribute Table.

> #. In the :guilabel:`Attribute Table` window, on the far left click on the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. In the :guilabel:`Attribute Table` window, on the far left, click on the 
```
?

   row number of the record that is currently not selected.

   .. figure:: img/select_record2.png
     :align: center

#. Go back to the main QGIS window and look at the Map Canvas. You should 
   see the larger of the two polygons colored yellow.  
#. To deselect the feature, go to the :guilabel:`Attribute Table` window 
   and click on |deselectActiveLayer| :sup:`Deselect All` button.

> Sometimes there are many features shown in the Map Canvas and it might be difficult

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes there are many features shown on the Map Canvas and it might be difficult
```

to see which feature is selected from the Attribute Table.  Another way to 

> identify the location of a feature is to use :guilabel:`Flash Feature` tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
identify the location of a feature is to use the :guilabel:`Flash Feature`
tool.
```

> #. In the :guilabel:`Attribute Table`, right-click on attribute ``r2855697``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the :guilabel:`Attribute Table`, right-click on any cell in the
   row that has the attribute value ``r2855697`` for the field ``full_id``.
```

> #. In the context menu, click on :guilabel:`Flash Feature` and look at the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the context menu, click on :guilabel:`Flash Feature` and watch the 
```

   Map Canvas.  

   .. figure:: img/flash_feature.png
     :align: center
   
   You should see the polygon flash red a few times.  If you missed it, 
   try it again.

Another useful tool is the :guilabel:`Zoom to Feature` tool, that tells QGIS to 
zoom to the feature of interest.

> #. In the :guilabel:`Attribute Table`, right-click on attribute ``r2855697``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the :guilabel:`Attribute Table`, right-click on  any cell in the
   row that has the attribute value ``r2855697`` for the field ``full_id``.
```

#. In the context menu, click on :guilabel:`Zoom to Feature`

   .. figure:: img/zoom_to_feature.png
     :align: center

>    Look at the Map Canvas.  You now should see the polygon occupy the 
>    extent of the Map Canvas area.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Look at the Map Canvas.  The polygon should now occupy the extent
   of the Map Canvas area.  
```
